RETHINK.md, before:

Things are getting big and I need to re-think how this is being done.

## Goals:
As I see it now, I want to produce an MCP, which is an agentic resource that makes the data in the CalHHS easily usable. The data should include meta-data which described the currency of the data and the quality of the data. A rule engine may need to be developed to examine the quality of the data.

## Known knowns:
- There are almost 600 datasets and there are all sorts of problems with them.
  - There may be no 'Download All' link.
  - There may be a 'Download All' link but it may be broken.
  - If there is no 'Download All' link, a selenium tool can get the list files and download them.
  - The download may just not work.
  - If the dataset is updated, then only files which themselves have been updated need to be processed.
- There are lots of kinds of data files, looking at them via their extensions.
  - There are CSV files and they are not too hard to deal with.
  - There are XLSX files and they are also not too hard to deal with.
  - Some datasets have "arcgis-geoservices-rest-api" files, but they are just placeholders?
  - There are "Thumbs.db" files, which can be removed.
  - There are "geojson" files.
  - There are document files (not data) which may be "doc", "docx". "pdf", "rtf" files.
  - Some "pdf" may actually be data.
  - There are spreadsheet files (not being read), which are "xls" (3k), "xlsb", "xlsm", "xsd", "xslt" files.
- Tables and files are mostly tracked by the sources table and the tables/columns table.
  - The source links to a dataset via its pk.
  - The source contains a file_name, file_digest and a sheet name (for spreadsheet files).
  - The source gives the name of a table, the target for the file's data.
  - There are some flags, TBD: "removed", "missing", "merges_to".
  - There are rows_num and cols_num columns in the source. Why?
  - The table table also tracks the number of rows.
  - The table in the sources table and the row in the tables table are not connected. Why?
- There is a tags table, with a join table, for connecting tags to either datasets or some other object.
  - The tag join table links via the target pk, an identifier for the target table, and the tag pk.
- An updates table tracks when datasets are downloaded and tracks whether the processing had an error.

## Known unknowns:
- How hard is it going to be to read all of the different spreadsheet types? Is there a way to make this a less obnoxious task?
- Can we get geo data out of the ArcGIS tarpits?
- Who is interested in this data and who might value this work?

## Unknown unknowns:
- Are there any? :--)

## Questions:
- Should I just bite the bullet and stop using bash scripts?
- What kind of data abstraction layer should I use? SQLAlchemy? Something else?
- Do I need to think about the ability to store to other databases?

## Design Ideas
I need to have the phases of the process more clearly separated. It will be good to determine whether a phase needs to read data or write data and whether it really needs to do both, or if these can be separated.

One phase is the updated dataset download phase. I need to be able to see if there has been a changed via the dataset's "Last Updated" value. I need to then (optionally) download the file and determine if an update to individual files has been made. This information should then to passed on to the processing layer or, in a dry run, just displayed. This phase only communicates to the Cal HHS web system and reads, and only reads, from the database.

The processing phase needs to read the data from the file and store it to the database. This phase should do nothing else. This should only write to the database.

A fixing phase needs to happen. This needs to both read and write to the database and is database-specific. But this phase is also optional. Subject to the desire for quality, this may or may not need to do very much.

A verification can run a rule engine to analyze the quality of the data. This phase should only read from the database.

Commit message:

Add note in re fetchability.py file.

RETHINK.md, after:

Things are getting big and I need to re-think how this is being done.

## Goals:
As I see it now, I want to produce an MCP, which is an agentic resource that makes the data in the CalHHS easily usable. The data should include meta-data which described the currency of the data and the quality of the data. A rule engine may need to be developed to examine the quality of the data.

## Known knowns:
- There are almost 600 datasets and there are all sorts of problems with them.
  - There may be no 'Download All' link.
  - There may be a 'Download All' link but it may be broken.
  - If there is no 'Download All' link, a selenium tool can get the list files and download them.
  - The download may just not work.
  - If the dataset is updated, then only files which themselves have been updated need to be processed.
- There are lots of kinds of data files, looking at them via their extensions.
  - There are CSV files and they are not too hard to deal with.
  - There are XLSX files and they are also not too hard to deal with.
  - Some datasets have "arcgis-geoservices-rest-api" files, but they are just placeholders?
  - There are "Thumbs.db" files, which can be removed.
  - There are "geojson" files.
  - There are document files (not data) which may be "doc", "docx". "pdf", "rtf" files.
  - Some "pdf" may actually be data.
  - There are spreadsheet files (not being read), which are "xls" (3k), "xlsb", "xlsm", "xsd", "xslt" files.
- Tables and files are mostly tracked by the sources table and the tables/columns table.
  - The source links to a dataset via its pk.
  - The source contains a file_name, file_digest and a sheet name (for spreadsheet files).
  - The source gives the name of a table, the target for the file's data.
  - There are some flags, TBD: "removed", "missing", "merges_to".
  - There are rows_num and cols_num columns in the source. Why?
  - The table table also tracks the number of rows.
  - The table in the sources table and the row in the tables table are not connected. Why?
- There is a tags table, with a join table, for connecting tags to either datasets or some other object.
  - The tag join table links via the target pk, an identifier for the target table, and the tag pk.
- An updates table tracks when datasets are downloaded and tracks whether the processing had an error.

## Known unknowns:
- How hard is it going to be to read all of the different spreadsheet types? Is there a way to make this a less obnoxious task?
- Can we get geo data out of the ArcGIS tarpits?
- Who is interested in this data and who might value this work?

## Unknown unknowns:
- Are there any? :--)

## Questions:
- Should I just bite the bullet and stop using bash scripts?
- What kind of data abstraction layer should I use? SQLAlchemy? Something else?
- Do I need to think about the ability to store to other databases?

## Design Ideas
I need to have the phases of the process more clearly separated. It will be good to determine whether a phase needs to read data or write data and whether it really needs to do both, or if these can be separated.

One phase is the updated dataset download phase. I need to be able to see if there has been a changed via the dataset's "Last Updated" value. I need to then (optionally) download the file and determine if an update to individual files has been made. This information should then to passed on to the processing layer or, in a dry run, just displayed. This phase only communicates to the Cal HHS web system and reads, and only reads, from the database.

See the source file, fetchability.py, for the phase one functionality.

The processing phase needs to read the data from the file and store it to the database. This phase should do nothing else. This should only write to the database.

A fixing phase needs to happen. This needs to both read and write to the database and is database-specific. But this phase is also optional. Subject to the desire for quality, this may or may not need to do very much.

A verification can run a rule engine to analyze the quality of the data. This phase should only read from the database.
